New abstract (#32)
intarchboard/draft-path-signals-collaboration: draft-iab-path-signals-collaboration.md

   
--- abstract

This document states principles for designing mechanisms that use or provide
path signals and calls for actions on specific valuable cases.
RFC 8558 describes path signals as messages to or from on-path elements.
The main guidance in {{RFC8558}} is to be aware that implicit signals
will be used whether intended or not. Protocol designers should
consider either hiding these signals when the information should not
be visible, or using explicit signals when it should be. 

Both can be achieved (hinding) or supported (explicit expose) using encryption.
While encryption is primarily deployed to protect and authenticate access to
user data, it also supports selected exposure to those entities that are

> addressed by a certain function on a certain layer. As such a clear separation
> of layer boundaries based on encryption improves privacy, supports innovation
> by avoiding ossification, and can also enable new opportunities for collaborative
> functions. 

Author: In case we want to remove layers here, this would be my proposed edit:
```suggestion
addressed by a certain function. As such encryption improves privacy, supports innovation
by avoiding ossification, and can also enable new opportunities for collaborative
functions. 
```

> Both can be achieved (hinding) or supported (explicit expose) using encryption.
> While encryption is primarily deployed to protect and authenticate access to
> user data, it also supports selected exposure to those entities that are
> addressed by a certain function on a certain layer. As such a clear separation
> of layer boundaries based on encryption improves privacy, supports innovation
> by avoiding ossification, and can also enable new opportunities for collaborative
> functions. 

Author: A proposal for an alternate ending:
```suggestion
This documents discusses principles for explicit exposure and provides guidance for 
selected exposure of minimal information specifically for encrypted protocols.
Encryption is needed to hide information that is not intended to be used by on-path
devices, and therefore also avoids ossification, and it can also be used to explicitly
expose selected signal to a limited set of authenticated entities in the network.
As such encryption improves privacy, supports innovation
by avoiding ossification, and can also enable new opportunities for collaborative
functions. The described principle recommend how to design those function and 
the input signals to these functions as part of existing or new encrypted protocols.
```
